Native CLI blog (#181)
infinispan/infinispan.github.io: 2021-02-01-infinispan-cli-image.adoc

---
layout: blog
title: Infinispan Native CLI

> permalink: /blog/:year/:month/:day/infinispan-12-final

Reviewer: ```suggestion
permalink: /blog/:year/:month/:day/infinispan-cli-image
```

date: '2021-02-01T12:00:00.000-00:00'
author: remerson
tags: [ "docker", "cli", "containers", "quarkus", "native"]
---

> Starting with Infinispan 12, we now provide a natively compiled version of the Infinispan CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with Infinispan 12, we provide a natively compiled version of the Infinispan CLI.
```

This can be consumed as a native binary or via a container image.

== Usage
. Start a Infinispan server instance so that the CLI has an endpoint to connect to:
----

> docker run --net=host -it -p 11222:11222 -e USER="user" -e PASS="pass" quay.io/infinispan/server:12.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
docker run --net=host -it --rm -p 11222:11222 -e USER="user" -e PASS="pass" quay.io/infinispan/server:12.0
```

Reviewer 2: `--net=host` isn't required for the server. `-p` forwards the port 11222 from the host machine to the container (at least on my machine)

Author: Good catch!

----

==== Container
[start=2]
. Launch the CLI image and connect to the server image:

----

> docker run --net=host -it --rm quay.io/remerson/cli -c http://127.0.0.1:11222

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
docker run --net=host -it --rm quay.io/infinispan/cli:12.0 -c http://127.0.0.1:11222
```

----
[start=3]
. Enter the "user" and "pass" credentials, for the username and password respectively.

> TIP: The container's endpoint is the CLI binary, therefore it's possible to pass CLI args straight to the image,e.g. `infinispan/cli:12.0 --version`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TIP: The container's endpoint is the CLI binary, therefore it's possible to pass CLI args straight to the image,e.g. `quay.io/infinispan/cli:12.0 --version`
```

Reviewer 2: maybe use the full command? `docker run --net=host --rm quay.io/infinispan/cli:12.0 --version`

> TIP: The container's endpoint is the CLI binary, therefore it's possible to pass CLI args straight to the image,e.g. `quay.io/infinispan/cli:12.0 --version`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TIP: The container's endpoint is the CLI binary, which lets you pass CLI arguments straight to the image, e.g. `quay.io/infinispan/cli:12.0 --version`
```

==== Binary
Native CLI binaries for Linux, Mac and Windows can be downloaded https://github.com/infinispan/infinispan-quarkus/releases/tag/12.0.0.Final[here].

[start=2]
. Download and extract the `.zip` for your desired platform:
.. https://github.com/infinispan/infinispan-quarkus/releases/download/12.0.0.Final/infinispan-cli-12.0.0.Final-linux-amd64.zip[Linux]
.. https://github.com/infinispan/infinispan-quarkus/releases/download/12.0.0.Final/infinispan-cli-12.0.0.Final-darwin-amd64.zip[Mac]
.. https://github.com/infinispan/infinispan-quarkus/releases/download/12.0.0.Final/infinispan-cli-12.0.0.Final-windows-amd64.zip[Windows]

. Start the CLI and connect to the server container:
.. Linux & Mac: `./ispn-cli -c http://127.0.0.1:11222`

> .. Windows (Powershell): `& ".\ispn-cli.exe" -c http://<host>:11222`

Reviewer 2: I would use http://127.0.0.1:11222 like in "linux & mac" command above.

== Get it, Use it, Ask us!

> Please http://infinispan.org/download/[download],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please https://infinispan.org/download/[download],
```
